---
layout: default
title:  24. Service
parent: KUBERNETES
has_children: true
nav_order: 1024
# permalink: /docs/PROJECT
---

# 24. Service

{:no_toc }

<details open markdown="block">  
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC  
{:toc}
</details>

## Summary  

Service is a fundamental resource that provides an abstraction layer to expose a set of Pods as a network service. Here are some key points about Kubernetes Service:

* A Kubernetes Service is assigned a unique IP address and hostname that are used to communicate with the Service.

* Services use selectors to dynamically match a set of Pods based on labels.

* Services can be used to provide load balancing, automatic service discovery, and failover for Pods.

* There are four types of Kubernetes Services: ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer, and ExternalName. Each type provides different levels of accessibility and functionality for accessing the Service.

* Services can be exposed internally within a cluster or externally to the public internet depending on the Service type.

* Services can be used by other Kubernetes resources such as Deployments, StatefulSets, and DaemonSets to access and manage Pods.

## Service definition

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Deployment</th>
    <th>Service</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">
      <pre>
        <code class="language-yaml">
<span style="color:red">apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment</span>
metadata:
  name: deploy-nginx
spec:
  <span style="color:red">replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: webui</span>
  template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx-pod
      <span style="color:red">labels:
        app: webui</span>     ## It will be target of Service's selector
    spec:
    containers:
    - name: nginx-container
      image: nginx:1.14
        </code>
      </pre>
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
      <pre>
        <code class="language-yaml">
<span style="color:red">apiVersion: v1
kind: Service</span>
metadata:
  name: webui-svc
spec:
<span style="color:red">clusterIP: 10.96.100.100
  selector:
    app: webui</span>
ports:
- protocol: TCP
    port: 80
    targetPort: 80
        </code>
      </pre>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## ClusterIP

A ClusterIP Service provides a virtual IP address that is only accessible within the cluster. This virtual IP is associated with a set of Pods, and any traffic sent to the virtual IP will be load balanced to the Pods. Some key points about ClusterIP Services include:

* ClusterIP Services are the default type of Service in Kubernetes.

* They are used for internal communication between Pods within the cluster.

* ClusterIP Services are not accessible from outside the cluster.

* They can be used in conjunction with other types of Services (such as NodePort or LoadBalancer) to provide different levels of access to applications running in the cluster.
