---
layout: default
title: 14. Route53
parent: AWS
nav_order: 114
# permalink: /docs/AWS/
---

# Route53

## Definition

Amazon Route 53 is a fully managed DNS (Domain Name System) service provided by AWS. DNS is an internet protocol that manages the mapping between domain names and IP addresses. By using Route 53, users can easily register and manage domain names, route DNS queries, and check DNS status, among other DNS management tasks.

## Function  

* **Domain registration and management**  
The domain registration and management eature allows users to register and manage domain names. Users can purchase a domain through Route 53 or transfer an existing domain to Route 53. Additionally, users can manage WHOIS information and update contact information for their domains.

* **DNS record management (A, AAAA, CNAME, MX, TXT, etc.)**  
The DNS record management feature allows users to manage DNS records. This feature supports various record types such as A, AAAA, CNAME, MX, TXT, and others. Users can add, modify, and delete these records to associate their domain names with IP addresses or services.

* **Traffic Flow (routing traffic by considering latency, location, weight, health check, etc.)**  
The Traffic Flow feature routes traffic by considering factors such as latency, location, weight, and health checks. This helps maximize website availability and minimize latency by routing traffic to endpoints that are geographically closer.

* **Health Check (monitoring server or endpoint status and sending notifications upon failure)**  
The Health Check feature monitors the status of servers or endpoints and sends notifications upon failure. This allows users to quickly respond and maintain service availability.

* **DNS query logging (preserving DNS query logs for domains)**  
The DNS query logging feature preserves DNS query logs for domains. This allows users to track who queried their domain names, when they queried them, and other information. These logs can be useful for security-related investigations.

## Advantage

* **High availability and scalability**  
Route 53 is designed to be highly available and scalable. It uses a global network of DNS servers to provide fast and reliable DNS resolution for domain names. Additionally, it can handle a large number of DNS queries per second, making it suitable for high-traffic websites.

* **Integration with other AWS services**  
Route 53 can integrate with other AWS services such as Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), Amazon S3, and AWS Certificate Manager. This makes it easy to configure DNS for these services and provides a seamless experience for users.

* **Traffic routing capabilities**  
Route 53 provides traffic routing capabilities that allow users to control how traffic is routed to their endpoints. This includes routing traffic based on latency, geographic location, health checks, and other factors. This helps improve website availability and performance.

* **Cost-effective pricing**
Route 53 offers cost-effective pricing for DNS resolution and traffic routing. Users can choose between pay-as-you-go pricing or a reserved capacity pricing model, depending on their needs.

* **Security and compliance**  
Route 53 is designed to be secure and compliant with industry standards such as HIPAA, PCI DSS, and SOC. It provides features such as DNSSEC, which adds an extra layer of security to DNS, and VPC endpoints, which allows users to access Route 53 within their private network.

## Route53 Route Policy

* **Simple routing policy**  
returns only one IP address when there are multiple IP addresses for a single resource. This policy is used when a single value needs to be returned for a resource.

* **Weighted routing policy**  
distributes DNS responses across multiple resources according to assigned weights. This policy is used when each resource has a different purpose or performance.

* **Latency routing policy**  
routes traffic to the resource with the lowest latency based on the user's geographic location. Route 53 collects latency data for resources with varying delays to minimize the latency between users and resources.

* **Failover routing policy**  
automatically switches traffic to the backup resource when the primary resource fails.

* **Geolocation routing policy**  
routes traffic to the most appropriate resource based on where the user's request is sent from.
Multi-Value Answer routing policy: similar to the Simple routing policy, but Route 53 returns multiple values, so different clients receive different values. This is useful for performing failover for a single IP address.

## DNS resolver  

Route53 DNS Resolver is one of the features provided by AWS's managed DNS service, Route53. This feature supports DNS name resolution used within a VPC and manages DNS query transmission between VPCs and the internet.

* **Inter-VPC DNS Name Resolution**  
In addition, Route53 DNS Resolver provides a useful feature for resolving DNS names between different VPCs. For example, if an EC2 instance in VPC A needs to reference an RDS database in VPC B, the Route53 DNS Resolver can be used to enable the EC2 instance in VPC A to reference the RDS database in VPC B.

* **DNS Name Resolution for AWS-Hosted Services**  
Furthermore, Route53 DNS Resolver can resolve DNS names for services hosted by AWS, making communication between AWS-hosted services easier.

### VPC DNS Options

AWS Route53 DNS Resolver provides VPC DNS Options that allow users to configure how DNS queries are handled within their VPC. VPC DNS Options include the following settings

1. **DNS resolution**  
This setting determines whether DNS queries are resolved within the VPC or forwarded to external DNS servers. Users can choose between "enable DNS resolution within the VPC" and "disable DNS resolution within the VPC".

2. **DNS hostnames**  
This setting determines whether instances within the VPC can have DNS hostnames associated with them. Users can choose between "enable DNS hostnames" and "disable DNS hostnames".

3. **DNS support**  
This setting determines whether instances within the VPC can use the Amazon-provided DNS server for DNS resolution. Users can choose between "enable DNS support" and "disable DNS support".

These VPC DNS Options allow users to customize how DNS queries are resolved within their VPC and control whether DNS hostnames are associated with instances within the VPC. By enabling DNS support, users can also take advantage of the Amazon-provided DNS server for DNS resolution, which simplifies the DNS configuration process.

### Private Hosted Zones DNS Query process  

1. A DNS query is generated from a resource hosted within a VPC.

2. The DNS query is sent to the Route53 Resolver.

3. If the query is for a Private Hosted Zone within the VPC, the Route53 Resolver forwards the query to the corresponding Private Hosted Zone.

4. The Private Hosted Zone receives the query and returns the IP address of the corresponding resource.

5. The returned IP address is sent back to the Route53 Resolver.

6. The Route53 Resolver returns the IP address to the resource that generated the DNS query.

This process enables DNS name resolution for resources within a VPC using Private Hosted Zones, which are hosted by the user and support DNS name resolution for resources that can only be accessed within the VPC. When querying Private Hosted Zones, the Route53 DNS Resolver ensures that the query is only forwarded within the VPC.
