---
layout: default
title: 12. Auto Scaling
parent: AWS
nav_order: 112
# permalink: /docs/AWS/
---

# Load Balancer

## Definition

AWS Auto Scaling is a service provided by AWS that automatically adds or removes EC2 instances to scale an application up or down to meet demand, maintaining availability and performance while optimizing costs.  

## Function  

* **Auto Scaling group**  
An Auto Scaling group is a collection of one or more EC2 instances. The group manages the start and termination of EC2 instances and provides the same configuration for all instances within the group.

* **Launch configuration**  
The launch configuration provides all the necessary information to start EC2 instances within an Auto Scaling group. This includes the Amazon Machine Image (AMI), instance type, security groups, etc.

* **Scaling policy**  
The scaling policy is a rule for adjusting the size of an Auto Scaling group. Based on metrics such as CPU usage, network usage, and request rate, the scaling policy automatically adjusts the number of instances in the Auto Scaling group.

* **Alarm**  
An alarm is used to determine when an Auto Scaling group's instance count should be adjusted based on the scaling policy. Alarms are set based on metrics such as CPU usage, network usage, and request rate.

## Advantage

Auto Scaling can be used with other AWS services such as Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon RDS, Amazon Aurora, and Amazon DynamoDB to automatically scale the entire application stack up or down. Auto Scaling can be accessed through various methods such as the AWS console, AWS CLI, and AWS SDK. Various Auto Scaling-related solutions are also available on the AWS Marketplace to make Auto Scaling implementation and management easier.

* **Scalability**  
Auto Scaling automatically adds EC2 instances when application demand increases, maintaining availability and performance.

* **Cost optimization**  
Auto Scaling automatically adjusts EC2 instances to optimize costs based on application demand, quickly responding to changes in the business.

* **Availability**  
Auto Scaling distributes instances across multiple availability zones to increase application availability.

* **Performance**  
Auto Scaling adjusts the number of instances using scaling policies to optimize application performance.

* **Auto Scaling**  
reduces the time and cost of provisioning and managing infrastructure needed to run an application. Additionally, it can be used in conjunction with features such as load balancing to increase application availability and performance.
