---
layout: default
title:  23. Controller - StatefulSet
parent: KUBERNETES
has_children: true
nav_order: 1023
# permalink: /docs/PROJECT
---

# 23. Controller - StatefulSet

{:no_toc }

<details open markdown="block">  
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC  
{:toc}
</details>

## Summary  

StatefulSets are a type of controller that manages the deployment and scaling of stateful applications, such as databases or other distributed systems, in a Kubernetes cluster. Here are some key points about StatefulSets, including how they differ from other replication controllers:

* StatefulSets are designed to manage stateful applications, which require unique network identifiers and stable storage.

* StatefulSets maintain a unique identity for each pod in the set, enabling them to be addressed individually and providing reliable stateful services.

* StatefulSets create pods in a predictable, sequential order, and each pod has a stable hostname and network identity.

* When scaling up or down, StatefulSets create or delete pods one at a time, preserving the stable network identity of the remaining pods.

* StatefulSets ensure that any stateful data is persisted when pods are rescheduled or deleted.

* Unlike other replication controllers, StatefulSets guarantee that the order in which pods are created is maintained, and each pod has a unique identity.

* While similar to other controllers like ReplicationController, ReplicaSet, Deployment, and DaemonSet, StatefulSets have unique properties that make them better suited for managing stateful applications in a Kubernetes cluster.

